Kevin Connolly: Keep it fast, so how has the hiring process changed in the past 2 years?
Kevin Connolly: A few things. One, of course, there's COVID, which basically induced a remote-friendly
Kevin Connolly: culture for many, many companies, that we're, like, never, ever would we be remote to, like, oh yeah, basically, most companies are entertaining. There's a little bit of a pullback, you know, like the return to office moment.
Kevin Connolly: But by and large, it's no longer strange to have a remote-friendly job. And with that, you now have the entire global, or, like, national, depending… sometimes it's remote, but time zone based.
Kevin Connolly: you just have way more applicants. So instead of just, like, you've got this advanced tech startup in one little factory town, and you gotta find your talent there, relocate people, it's like now anybody in the world. And what does that mean? It means recruiting teams are strained, because the number of inbound applications per job has gone through the roof, like.
Kevin Connolly: tripled, and I have a slide on that I'll show. But the accelerated adoption of AI
Kevin Connolly: then means that, recruiting teams need to use AI to facilitate some of that top-of-funnel process, and I would like to emphasize that this is a candidate-friendly
Kevin Connolly: Motion, in my opinion, because if you want to stand out, maybe you are a great fit, but if you have a recruiter, historically, and they get, like, 1,500 applications with no advanced tooling, it's actually a very hard job to just go through and
Kevin Connolly: you know, make sure you give every applicant proper attention. And the AI tooling is designed, actually, for transparency, accountability,
Kevin Connolly: fairness, and the end goal, the incentives are aligned. The talent team wants the best person for the role, and if you are a good fit, but you might be one of many, these tools try to make it really hard to miss a good fit, is one way to put it.
Kevin Connolly: So I think there's a little bit of, like, anxiety, you know, like, oh, I'm concerned about the AI tooling, but it really, it really should be to your benefit. And one of the things that's right at the cutting edge of this right now is basically AI interviewing, which also sounds kind of strange, and like, I don't know if I want to do that.
Kevin Connolly: But that means we have generative text-to-speech and speech-to-text AI, and you can have a dynamic, automated interview that sounds like a human, a little bit of uncanny belliness, probably here or there.
Kevin Connolly: But the whole purpose of that is because I, as a hiring manager, and I'll say a few more points on this, might have 1,500 applicants, reduce 100 great people, and then I have to reduce 100 great people to 20 that I will talk to.
Kevin Connolly: And if I had all the time in the world, I'd interview all of them, and if we had all the time in the world, I wouldn't mind how long it takes, but I've got, like, one week to get, like, my process going, that I… time is competitive, and so a lot of hard and accurate decisions are…
Kevin Connolly: hopefully accurate, but with uncertainty, decisions are made to say, like, you were great, but I just gotta… I'm gonna pick these other 20. With AI interviewing, you could say, like, these other 20, so now it's 40 people are getting interviews, or, like, an at-bat.
Kevin Connolly: can go through that process, and if they stand out, then they will… they will stand out, and I will give them a chance and, like, try to move forward. So it's… it's all in the interest of getting the best fit.
Kevin Connolly: recognized and making a good hire. Another major
Kevin Connolly: trend is fraud with the remote world. Like, there's a lot of news items about
Kevin Connolly: nefarious individuals trying to basically break into companies by fraudulent manners, stealing identities, masquerading as different people. Pragmatically speaking, it's just like, if you're gonna apply, and you're using a VPN,
Kevin Connolly: from…
Kevin Connolly: I don't know, like, somewhere in Asia, but you're located in New York, and then your last job was in Europe, so your LinkedIn is out of date, and you have no LinkedIn profile because you're, like, a privacy-centric person, like, it's all understandable, but, like, in this defensive era, it…
Kevin Connolly: it won't get you rejected automatically, but you'll, like, go on a list of, like, is this person real? And some of that will probably get flagged, depending on the sophistication of the team. So you can just remedy it by, like, leaning into being a little bit more,
Kevin Connolly: transparent with your profile, maybe. I know as a new grad, I kind of had a, I'd say, academic slant and disdain for LinkedIn, and I was like, what do I… I don't need that network.
Kevin Connolly: You can still believe that, but it's probably beneficial to, you know, bolster that a bit, try to make a few connections and things.
Kevin Connolly: But I do want to emphasize, you would never get rejected just because you don't have LinkedIn. It's just something that would make you look a little bit less like a possible fraudulent individual.